All right example three Here is a short kind of conceptual problem involves combination of resistors
in series and in parallel.
And we have two questions it says given the circuit over here with many resistors we have six one single
battery over here.
First question is which resistor is if any are connected in series.
How can we find which ones are connected in series.
Well remember if something is in series I mean you had like kind of simple examples right if we had
something like this and something like this.
I mean those ones are clearly in series with each other.
Now clearly this example doesn't have any of these super easy cases.
However one thing that's common about something that is in series imagine here if I introduce two points
A and B if they are in series it means that the current flowing through them necessarily has to be the
same because the electrons have nowhere else to go.
There is only a single path.
In other words there is only a single branch if they are in series with one another.
So let's have a look at all the branches.
So how many branches do we have.
Number one.
Let's go ahead maybe highlight some of those.
See if I can do this.
So here the branch there is won.
What else.
Here's another branch down here.
Maybe a third or another one over here.
Go down here all the way to the point C.
And then what else is another branch over here.
And I don't know one more down here through the diagonal.
So these are all the branches to this circuit.
We have one two three four five.
We have five different branches to the circuit and now we have to identify are there resistors on the
same branch.
If you start with the orange highlighted one now although there is a battery in between them that really
doesn't matter because even in the simple case if I had a battery kind of located right at the midpoint
here between both of them these two would still be in series because the current flowing through them
would have to be the same.
So the resistors that are in series we have to have that are 1 and are six are in series with one another
anything else.
Now you might be tempted to try to combine some of these other ones however.
They're all on different branches right.
And there is no guarantee that the current flowing through them is going to be the same.
OK.
So these ones are definitely certainly not in series with each other.
So this is really the only pair of resistors that are in series with each other.
So here I'd be able to combine our one in our six by 1 equivalent resistor simply equal to the sum.
All right.
How about KSB which ones are connected in parallel to each other.
Now for the parallel case or really what I would really suggest with some of these circuits and sometimes
they try to do something like this on the right hand side is they try to make it more complicated than
it is.
So let me kind of clean this up a little bit here okay.
Yeah they sometimes they draw some resistors and diagonal.
One thing you have to remember is that these wires here at least in these ideal circuits they dont have
any resistance which means you can make them longer or you can make them shorter or you can deform this
as long as you don't change kind of the topology of the circuit you're going to get the same answer.
So let me show you what I mean by that.
So imagine if I redraw the circuit kind of quickly here just do it in black.
But here's our one.
Let's keep that in the same.
Let's draw a more kind of in Cartesian form get rid of that diagonal I think is what I really want to
get to let's draw our six down here.
OK.
So here we have our two here we have our six.
All right.
Now this is point D down here.
Now if I extend point the I'm going to keep our 5 or 8 where it is.
That's this one over here are five.
Now instead of kind of launching these three kind of from the same point really what I'm going to do
is I can extend this.
I can extend this a little bit this way and I know that are four can kind of connect after our 5 over
here here's pt. s..
And it goes.
Now although point B is here I can make this wire longer and it really doesn't change anything here.
And I can put our For like this.
This is our 4 and now I'm left with.
So you can call this kind of point B prime.
I haven't really changed anything.
And the last thing now would be the resistance are three are three K'NEX point B to point C log in to
connect point B to points.
You can do this
this would be the resistance are three.
Now you see if you have it in this form it's much easier actually to determine which resistors are in
and parallel with each other.
Now right away you think you should be able to say that.
Well let's look at these clearly are four and are three are in parallel with each other.
So we can write that down.
There is one pair that are in parallel.
So we have our three and R for the voltage across both of these have to be the same.
Now what about R2 I guess the other problem is what do we do with our two halves are two in parallel
with our three.
Now the only complication with this one is we have that this resistor our 5 comes into play here.
So that means that the voltage across our four and our three is not going to be the same necessarily
as the voltage across our two because we have this other resistor over here.
So that kind of ruins it for us.
So the only combination we have are are three and are four are in parallel and that's it.
Now this entire network can be simplified now we can combine our three and our 4 and 2 1 equivalent
resist there.
Then I can combine that equivalent resistor with our Because the equivalent resistor of our three and
four are going to be in series with R5 and then you can proceed kind of all the way until the end.
OK but that's it for these two.
So you got that one right.
These kinds of questions can sometimes be a little bit more conceptually difficult but keep in mind
you can deform you can make these wires as long as possible as long as you're still kind of you haven't
really changed anything about the circuit.
OK and I haven't really.
This is really is the same circuit as this one I've just deform the wires which is OK to do.